README of pology rules, dictionary and hooks of the KDE l10n Spanish team.

In this moment there is not any web page about pology in Spanish.
A good reference about the use of pology by translators is the page of 
the French translation team at: http://fr.i18n.kde.org/pology.php

1.- Rules
---------
1.1.- "being-polite rules-disabled":
  Contains rules refereed to the translation of "please" and "you". 
Due to the high amount of matched terms, this rule is disabled by default.
To enable it please, rename the file without the ending ".disabled"

1.2.- "false-friends.rules"
  Contains rules about false friends in English/Spanish translations.
The list of false friends has been obtained from:
- Wikipedia in Spanish: http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anexo:Falsos_amigos#Ingl.C3.A9s
- Eloy Cuadra website: http://www.eloihr.net/falsefriends/index.php?page=listado
  (Eloy is the coordinator of the Spanish KDE translation team)

1.3.- "filter.include"
  Filters used by some rules files. The following elements are 
not considered by this rules:
- Function calls
- XML tags
- Extensions
- Command options
- Environment variables
- Web pages
- Email addresses
- System files
- Some system files and directories
- Home hidden files and directories
- Abbreviations (Spanish)
- Usual smileys
- Complete messages with specific tags.
- Dates and numbers.

1.4.- "gerund-detector.rules.disabled".
  Try to detect incorrect translation of English gerund into Spanish.
It is not finished yet.

1.5.- "glosario-kde-l10n-es.rules"
  Rules based in the glossary of the Spanish team:
http://es.l10n.kde.org/glosario.php

1.6.- "glosario-kde-l10n-es-proposed.rules"
  New rules about translations that can be included in the glossary.
When being approved by the team coordinator, will be moved to the 
main glossary.

1.7.- "paired-words.rules"
  Check the occurrence of some words both the original and the translated texts.
- XML entities.
- Capital words (upper case).
- Parameters.
- Number of tabs and new lines.
- Empty translations.
- Very long/short translations.
- Not translated when it should be.

1.8.- "paragraph-begin.rules"
  Use of spaces and capitalization at the beginning of a new paragraph.
Similar at the functions included in KBabel.

1.9.- "paragraph-end.rules"
  Use of spaces, capitalization and punctuation at the end of a new paragraph.
Similar at the functions included in KBabel, but more complete and 
adapted to Spanish language.

1.10.- "translator.rules"
  Detects frequent errors related with the list of names and emails of translators.
The main mistake is the presence of unnecessary spaces between names or emails.

1.11.- "typography.rules"
  Use of punctuation sings, according the Real Academia Española.
It is based in the file with the same name of the French team, but has been 
widely simplified and modified.

2.-Dictionary.
--------------
  Contains a list of words used as complementary dictionary for aspell.
The words are: names of persons related with KDE, acronyms, trade marks, 
programs, abbreviations, names of countries and capitals, chemical elements 
and compounds, units, etc..
  The name of the file is "dict.aspell" in the spell subdirectory.
The file "ignoredContext" in the same subdirectory, contains a list 
of context that should no be checked in any case.
  The dictionary is not of exclusive use of pology. It can be used by 
any other application that use aspell as spell checker. This is the case 
of all KDE applications and definitely Lokalize. To allow this use, add a 
symbolic link from the dictionary to "~/.aspell-$LANGUAGE.pws". See aspell 
documentation for details.
  In order to help the maintenance of the dictionary, there are some list of words 
sorted by topic, at the subdirectory "spell-spec". The whole dictionary can be generated 
using the script "update-dict.sh". The reason of that structure is that 
having a single dictionary allow it use outside pology.
